As he spoke the gleam of the side-lights of a carriage came roundthe curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau whichrattled up to the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up, one ofthe loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door inthe hope of earning a copper, but was elbowed away by anotherloafer, who had rushed up with the same intention. A fiercequarrel broke out, which was increased by the two guardsmen, whotook sides with one of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder,who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was struck, andin an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage, wasthe centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, whostruck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmesdashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but just as he reachedher he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the bloodrunning freely down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took totheir heels in one direction and the loungers in the other, whilea number of better-dressed people, who had watched the scufflewithout taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and toattend to the injured man. Irene Adler, as I will still call her,had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with hersuperb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, lookingback into the street. "Is the poor gentleman much hurt?" she asked. "He is dead," cried several voices. "No, no, there's life in him!" shouted another. "But he'll begone before you can get him to hospital." "He's a brave fellow," said a woman. "They would have had thelady's purse and watch if it hadn't been for him. They were agang, and a rough one, too. Ah, he's breathing now." "He can't lie in the street. May we bring him in, marm?" "Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There is a comfortablesofa. This way, please!" Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid outin the principal room, while I still observed the proceedingsfrom my post by the window. The lamps had been lit, but theblinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he layupon the couch. I do not know whether he was seized withcompunction at that moment for the part he was playing, but Iknow that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my lifethan when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I wasconspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waitedupon the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treacheryto Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrustedto me. I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from undermy ulster. After all'This is Mr. Jabez Wilson,' said my assistant, 'and he is willing to fill a vacancy in the League.'"'And he is admirably suited for it,' the other answered. 'He has every requirement. I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine.' He took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful. Then suddenly he plunged forward, wrung my hand, and congratulated me warmly on my success."'It would be injustice to hesitate,' said he. 'You will, however, I am sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.' With that he seized my hair in both his hands, and tugged until I yelled with the pain. 'There is water in your eyes,' said he as he released me. 'I perceive that all is as it should be. But we have to be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint. I could tell you tales of cobbler's wax which would disgust you with human nature.' He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled. A groan of disappointment came up from below, and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager."'My name,' said he, 'is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I am myself one of the pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor. Are you a married man, Mr. Wilson? Have you a family?'"I answered that I had not."His face fell immediately.