As he spoke the gleam of the side-lights of a carriage came roundthe curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau whichrattled up to the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up, one ofthe loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door inthe hope of earning a copper, but was elbowed away by anotherloafer, who had rushed up with the same intention. A fiercequarrel broke out, which was increased by the two guardsmen, whotook sides with one of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder,who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was struck, andin an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage, wasthe centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, whostruck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmesdashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but just as he reachedher he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the bloodrunning freely down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took totheir heels in one direction and the loungers in the other, whilea number of better-dressed people, who had watched the scufflewithout taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and toattend to the injured man. Irene Adler, as I will still call her,had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with hersuperb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, lookingback into the street.
 "Is the poor gentleman much hurt?" she asked.
 "He is dead," cried several voices.
 "No, no, there's life in him!" shouted another. "But he'll begone before you can get him to hospital."
 "He's a brave fellow," said a woman. "They would have had thelady's purse and watch if it hadn't been for him. They were agang, and a rough one, too. Ah, he's breathing now."
 "He can't lie in the street. May we bring him in, marm?"
 "Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There is a comfortablesofa. This way, please!"
 Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid outin the principal room, while I still observed the proceedingsfrom my post by the window. The lamps had been lit, but theblinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he layupon the couch. I do not know whether he was seized withcompunction at that moment for the part he was playing, but Iknow that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my lifethan when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I wasconspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waitedupon the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treacheryto Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrustedto me. I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from undermy ulster. After all, I thought, we are not injuring her. We arebut preventing her from injuring another.
 Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a manwho is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open thewindow. At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at thesignal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of "Fire!" Theword was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd ofspectators, well dressed and ill--gentlemen, ostlers, andservant-maids--joined in a general shriek of "Fire!" Thick cloudsof smoke curled through the room and out at the open window. Icaught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voiceof Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.
 Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the cornerof the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find myfriend's arm in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar.
 He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until wehad turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards theEdgeware Road.
 "You did it very nicely, Doctor," he remarked. "Nothing couldhave been better. It is all right."
 "You have the photograph?"
 "I know where it is."
 "And how did you find out?"
 "She showed me, as I told you she would."
 "I am still in the dark."
 "I do not wish to make a mystery," said he, laughing. "The matterwas perfectly simple. You, of course, saw that everyone in thestreet was an accomplice. They were all engaged for the evening."
 "I guessed as much."
 "Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint inthe palm of my hand. I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my handto my face, and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick."
 "That also I could fathom."
 "Then they carried me in. She was bound to have me in. What elsecould she do? And into her sitting-room, which was the very roomwhich I suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom, and I wasdetermined to see which. They laid me on a couch, I motioned forair, they were compelled to open the window, and you had yourchance."
 "How did that help you?"
 "It was all-important. When a woman thinks that her house is onfire, her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which shevalues most. It is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I havemore than once taken advantage of it. In the case of theDarlington substitution scandal it was of use to me, and also inthe Arnsworth Castle business. A married woman grabs at her baby;an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box. Now it was clear tome that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more preciousto her than what we are in quest of. She would rush to secure it.
 The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting wereenough to shake nerves of steel. She responded beautifully. Thephotograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above theright bell-pull. She was there in an instant, and I caught aglimpse of it as she half-drew it out. When I cried out that itwas a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushedfrom the room, and I have not seen her since. I rose, and, makingmy excuses, escaped from the house. I hesitated whether toattempt to secure the photograph at once; but the coachman hadcome in, and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer towait. A little over-precipitance may ruin all."
 "And now?" I asked.
 "Our quest is practically finished. I shall call with the Kingto-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us. We will beshown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it isprobable that when she comes she may find neither us nor thephotograph. It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regainit with his own hands."
 "And when will you call?"
 "At eight in the morning. She will not be up, so that we shallhave a clear field. Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriagemay mean a complete change in her life and habits. I must wire tothe King without delay."
 We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He wassearching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:"Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes."
 There were several people on the pavement at the time, but thegreeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who hadhurried by.
 "I've heard that voice before," said Holmes, staring down thedimly lit street. "Now, I wonder who the deuce that could havebeen."
 III.
 I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon ourtoast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushedinto the room.
 "You have really got it!" he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes byeither shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.
 "Not yet."
 "But you have hopes?"
 "I have hopes."
 "Then, come. I am all impatience to be gone."
 "We must have a cab."
 "No, my brougham is waiting."
 "Then that will simplify matters." We descended and started offonce more for Briony Lodge.
 "Irene Adler is married," remarked Holmes.
 "Married! When?"
 "Yesterday."
 "But to whom?"
 "To an English lawyer named Norton."
 "But she could not love him."
 "I am in hopes that she does."
 "And why in hopes?"
 "Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of futureannoyance. If the lady loves her husband, she does not love yourMajesty. If she does not love your Majesty, there is no reasonwhy she should interfere with your Majesty's plan."
 "It is true. And yet--Well! I wish she had been of my ownstation! What a queen she would have made!" He relapsed into amoody silence, which was not broken until we drew up inSerpentine Avenue.
 The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stoodupon the steps. She watched us with a sardonic eye as we steppedfrom the brougham.
 "Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?" said she.
 "I am Mr. Holmes," answered my companion, looking at her with aquestioning and rather startled gaze.
 "Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likely to call. Sheleft this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from CharingCross for the Continent."
 "What!" Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin andsurprise. "Do you mean that she has left England?"
 "Never to return."
 "And the papers?" asked the King hoarsely. "All is lost."
 "We shall see." He pushed past the servant and rushed into thedrawing-room, followed by the King and myself. The furniture wasscattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves andopen drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them beforeher flight. Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a smallsliding shutter, and, plunging in his hand, pulled out aphotograph and a letter. The photograph was of Irene Adlerherself in evening dress, the letter was superscribed to"Sherlock Holmes, Esq. To be left till called for." My friendtore it open and we all three read it together. It was dated atmidnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:"MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,--You really did it very well. Youtook me in completely. Until after the alarm of fire, I had not asuspicion. But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, Ibegan to think. I had been warned against you months ago. I hadbeen told that if the King employed an agent it would certainlybe you. And your address had been given me. Yet, with all this,you made me reveal what you wanted to know. Even after I becamesuspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kindold clergyman. But, you know, I have been trained as an actressmyself. Male costume is nothing new to me. I often take advantageof the freedom which it gives. I sent John, the coachman, towatch you, ran up stairs, got into my walking-clothes, as I callthem, and came down just as you departed.
 "Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I wasreally an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. SherlockHolmes. Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, andstarted for the Temple to see my husband.
 "We both thought the best resource was flight, when pursued byso formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty whenyou call to-morrow. As to the photograph, your client may rest inpeace. I love and am loved by a better man than he. The King maydo what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruellywronged. I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve aweapon which will always secure me from any steps which he mighttake in the future. I leave a photograph which he might care topossess; and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes,"Very truly yours,
 "IRENE NORTON, née ADLER."
 "What a woman--oh, what a woman!" cried the King of Bohemia, whenwe had all three read this epistle. "Did I not tell you how quickand resolute she was? Would she not have made an admirable queen?
 Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?"
 "From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on avery different level to your Majesty," said Holmes coldly. "I amsorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty's businessto a more successful conclusion."
 "On the contrary, my dear sir," cried the King; "nothing could bemore successful. I know that her word is inviolate. Thephotograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire."
 "I am glad to hear your Majesty say so."
 "I am immensely indebted to you. Pray tell me in what way I canreward you. This ring--" He slipped an emerald snake ring fromhis finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.
 "Your Majesty has something which I should value even morehighly," said Holmes.
 "You have but to name it."
 "This photograph!"
 The King stared at him in amazement.
 "Irene's photograph!" he cried. "Certainly, if you wish it."
 "I thank your Majesty. Then there is no more to be done in thematter. I have the honour to wish you a very good-morning." Hebowed, and, turning away without observing the hand which theKing had stretched out to him, he set off in my company for hischambers.
 And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdomof Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes werebeaten by a woman's wit. He used to make merry over thecleverness of women, but I have not heard him do it of late. Andwhen he speaks of Irene Adler, or when he refers to herphotograph, it is always under the honourable title of the woman."As he spoke he opened a door and showed the way into a room which appeared to be very richly furnished, but again the only light was afforded by a single lamp half-turned down.  The chamber was certainly large, and the way in which my feet sank into the carpet as I stepped across it told me of its richness.  I caught glimpses of velvet chairs, a high white marble mantel-piece, and what seemed to be a suit of Japanese armor at one side of it.  There was a chair just under the lamp, and the elderly man motioned that I should sit in it.  The younger had left us, but he suddenly returned through another door, leading with him a gentleman clad in some sort of loose dressing-gown who moved slowly towards us.  As he came into the circle of dim light which enabled me to see him more clearly I was thrilled with horror at his appearance.  He was deadly pale and terribly emaciated, with the protruding, brilliant eyes of a man whose spirit was greater than his strength.  But what shocked me more than any signs of physical weakness was that his face was grotesquely criss-crossed with sticking-plaster, and that one large pad of it was fastened over his mouth.
 "'Have you the slate, Harold?' cried the older man, as this strange being fell rather than sat down into a chair.  'Are his hands loose?
 Now, then, give him the pencil.  You are to ask the questions, Mr.
 Melas, and he will write the answers.  Ask him first of all whether he is prepared to sign the papers?'
 "The man's eyes flashed fire.
 "'Never!' he wrote in Greek upon the slate.
 "'On no condition?' I asked, at the bidding of our tyrant.
 "'Only if I see her married in my presence by a Greek priest whom I know.'
 "The man giggled in his venomous way.
 "'You know what awaits you, then?'
 "'I care nothing for myself.'
 "These are samples of the questions and answers which made up our strange half-spoken, half-written conversation.  Again and again I had to ask him whether he would give in and sign the documents.
 Again and again I had the same indignant reply.  But soon a happy thought came to me.  I took to adding on little sentences of my own to each question, innocent ones at first, to test whether either of our companions knew anything of the matter, and then, as I found that they showed no signs I played a more dangerous game.  Our conversation ran something like this:
 "'You can do no good by this obstinacy. Who are you?'
 "'I care not. I am a stranger in London.'
 "'Your fate will be upon your own head. How long have you been here?'
 "'Let it be so. Three weeks.'
 "'The property can never be yours. What ails you?'
 "'It shall not go to villains. They are starving me.'
 "'You shall go free if you sign. What house is this?'
 "'I will never sign. I do not know.'
 "'You are not doing her any service. What is your name?'
 "'Let me hear her say so. Kratides.'
 "'You shall see her if you sign. Where are you from?'
 "'Then I shall never see her. Athens.'
 "Another five minutes, Mr. Holmes, and I should have wormed out the whole story under their very noses.  My very next question might have cleared the matter up, but at that instant the door opened and a woman stepped into the room.  I could not see her clearly enough to know more than that she was tall and graceful, with black hair, and clad in some sort of loose white gown.
 "'Harold,' said she, speaking English with a broken accent.  'I could not stay away longer.  It is so lonely up there with only--Oh, my God, it is Paul!'
 "These last words were in Greek, and at the same instant the man with a convulsive effort tore the plaster from his lips, and screaming out 'Sophy!  Sophy!' rushed into the woman's arms.  Their embrace was but for an instant, however, for the younger man seized the woman and pushed her out of the room, while the elder easily overpowered his emaciated victim, and dragged him away through the other door.  For a moment I was left alone in the room, and I sprang to my feet with some vague idea that I might in some way get a clue to what this house was in which I found myself.  Fortunately, however, I took no steps, for looking up I saw that the older man was standing in the door-way with his eyes fixed upon me.
 "'That will do, Mr. Melas,' said he.  'You perceive that we have taken you into our confidence over some very private business.  We should not have troubled you, only that our friend who speaks Greek and who began these negotiations has been forced to return to the East.  It was quite necessary for us to find some one to take his place, and we were fortunate in hearing of your powers.'
 "I bowed.
 "'There are five sovereigns here,' said he, walking up to me, 'which will, I hope, be a sufficient fee.  But remember,' he added, tapping me lightly on the chest and giggling, 'if you speak to a human soul about this--one human soul, mind--well, may God have mercy upon your soul!'
 "I cannot tell you the loathing and horror with which this insignificant-looking man inspired me.  I could see him better now as the lamp-light shone upon him.  His features were peaky and sallow, and his little pointed beard was thready and ill-nourished.  He pushed his face forward as he spoke and his lips and eyelids were continually twitching like a man with St. Vitus's dance.  I could not help thinking that his strange, catchy little laugh was also a symptom of some nervous malady.  The terror of his face lay in his eyes, however, steel gray, and glistening coldly with a malignant, inexorable cruelty in their depths.
 "'We shall know if you speak of this,' said he.  'We have our own means of information.  Now you will find the carriage waiting, and my friend will see you on your way.'
 "I was hurried through the hall and into the vehicle, again obtaining that momentary glimpse of trees and a garden.  Mr. Latimer followed closely at my heels, and took his place opposite to me without a word.  In silence we again drove for an interminable distance with the windows raised, until at last, just after midnight, the carriage pulled up.
 "'You will get down here, Mr. Melas,' said my companion.  'I am sorry to leave you so far from your house, but there is no alternative.
 Any attempt upon your part to follow the carriage can only end in injury to yourself.'
 "He opened the door as he spoke, and I had hardly time to spring out when the coachman lashed the horse and the carriage rattled away.  I looked around me in astonishment.  I was on some sort of a heathy common mottled over with dark clumps of furze-bushes.  Far away stretched a line of houses, with a light here and there in the upper windows.  On the other side I saw the red signal-lamps of a railway.
 "The carriage which had brought me was already out of sight.  I stood gazing round and wondering where on earth I might be, when I saw some one coming towards me in the darkness.  As he came up to me I made out that he was a railway porter.
 "'Can you tell me what place this is?' I asked.
 "'Wandsworth Common,' said he.
 "'Can I get a train into town?'
 "'If you walk on a mile or so to Clapham Junction,' said he, 'you'll just be in time for the last to Victoria.'
 "So that was the end of my adventure, Mr. Holmes.  I do not know where I was, nor whom I spoke with, nor anything save what I have told you.  But I know that there is foul play going on, and I want to help that unhappy man if I can.  I told the whole story to Mr.
 Mycroft Holmes next morning, and subsequently to the police."
 We all sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative.  Then Sherlock looked across at his brother.
 "Any steps?" he asked.
 Mycroft picked up the Daily News, which was lying on the side-table.
 "Anybody supplying any information as to the whereabouts of a Greek gentleman named Paul Kratides, from Athens, who is unable to speak English, will be rewarded.  A similar reward paid to any one giving information about a Greek lady whose first name is Sophy. X 2473.
 "That was in all the dailies.  No answer."
 "How about the Greek Legation?"
 "I have inquired.  They know nothing."
 "A wire to the head of the Athens police, then?"
 "Sherlock has all the energy of the family," said Mycroft, turning to me.  "Well, you take the case up by all means, and let me know if you do any good."
 "Certainly," answered my friend, rising from his chair.  "I'll let you know, and Mr. Melas also.  In the meantime, Mr. Melas, I should certainly be on my guard, if I were you, for of course they must know through these advertisements that you have betrayed them."
 As we walked home together, Holmes stopped at a telegraph office and sent off several wires.
 "You see, Watson," he remarked, "our evening has been by no means wasted.  Some of my most interesting cases have come to me in this way through Mycroft.  The problem which we have just listened to, although it can admit of but one explanation, has still some distinguishing features."
 "You have hopes of solving it?"
 "Well, knowing as much as we do, it will be singular indeed if we fail to discover the rest.  You must yourself have formed some theory which will explain the facts to which we have listened."
 "In a vague way, yes."
 "What was your idea, then?"
 "It seemed to me to be obvious that this Greek girl had been carried off by the young Englishman named Harold Latimer."
 "Carried off from where?"
 "Athens, perhaps."
 Sherlock Holmes shook his head.  "This young man could not talk a word of Greek.  The lady could talk English fairly well.
 Inference--that she had been in England some little time, but he had not been in Greece."
 "Well, then, we will presume that she had come on a visit to England, and that this Harold had persuaded her to fly with him."
 "That is more probable."
 "Then the brother--for that, I fancy, must be the relationship--comes over from Greece to interfere.  He imprudently puts himself into the power of the young man and his older associate.  They seize him and use violence towards him in order to make him sign some papers to make over the girl's fortune--of which he may be trustee--to them.
 This he refuses to do.  In order to negotiate with him they have to get an interpreter, and they pitch upon this Mr. Melas, having used some other one before.  The girl is not told of the arrival of her brother, and finds it out by the merest accident."
 "Excellent, Watson!" cried Holmes.  "I really fancy that you are not far from the truth.  You see that we hold all the cards, and we have only to fear some sudden act of violence on their part.  If they give us time we must have them."
 "But how can we find where this house lies?"
 "Well, if our conjecture is correct and the girl's name is or was Sophy Kratides, we should have no difficulty in tracing her.  That must be our main hope, for the brother is, of course, a complete stranger.  It is clear that some time has elapsed since this Harold established these relations with the girl--some weeks, at any rate--since the brother in Greece has had time to hear of it and come across.  If they have been living in the same place during this time, it is probable that we shall have some answer to Mycroft's advertisement."
 We had reached our house in Baker Street while we had been talking.
 Holmes ascended the stair first, and as he opened the door of our room he gave a start of surprise.  Looking over his shoulder, I was equally astonished.  His brother Mycroft was sitting smoking in the arm-chair.
 "Come in, Sherlock!  Come in, sir," said he blandly, smiling at our surprised faces.  "You don't expect such energy from me, do you, Sherlock?  But somehow this case attracts me."
 "How did you get here?"
 "I passed you in a hansom."
 "There has been some new development?"
 "I had an answer to my advertisement."
 "Ah!"
 "Yes, it came within a few minutes of your leaving."
 "And to what effect?"
 Mycroft Holmes took out a sheet of paper.
 "Here it is," said he, "written with a J pen on royal cream paper by a middle-aged man with a weak constitution.
 "Sir [he says]:
 "In answer to your advertisement of to-day's date, I beg to inform you that I know the young lady in question very well.  If you should care to call upon me I could give you some particulars as to her painful history.  She is living at present at The Myrtles, Beckenham.
 "Yours faithfully,
 "J. Davenport.
 "He writes from Lower Brixton," said Mycroft Holmes.  "Do you not think that we might drive to him now, Sherlock, and learn these particulars?"
 "My dear Mycroft, the brother's life is more valuable than the sister's story.  I think we should call at Scotland Yard for Inspector Gregson, and go straight out to Beckenham.  We know that a man is being done to death, and every hour may be vital."
 "Better pick up Mr. Melas on our way," I suggested.  "We may need an interpreter."
 "Excellent," said Sherlock Holmes.  "Send the boy for a four-wheeler, and we shall be off at once."  He opened the table-drawer as he spoke, and I noticed that he slipped his revolver into his pocket.
 "Yes," said he, in answer to my glance; "I should say from what we have heard, that we are dealing with a particularly dangerous gang."
 It was almost dark before we found ourselves in Pall Mall, at the rooms of Mr. Melas.  A gentleman had just called for him, and he was gone.
 "Can you tell me where?" asked Mycroft Holmes.
 "I don't know, sir," answered the woman who had opened the door; "I only know that he drove away with the gentleman in a carriage."
 "Did the gentleman give a name?"
 "No, sir."
 "He wasn't a tall, handsome, dark young man?"
 "Oh, no, sir.  He was a little gentleman, with glasses, thin in the face, but very pleasant in his ways, for he was laughing all the time that he was talking."
 "Come along!" cried Sherlock Holmes, abruptly.  "This grows serious,"
 he observed, as we drove to Scotland Yard.  "These men have got hold of Melas again.  He is a man of no physical courage, as they are well aware from their experience the other night.  This villain was able to terrorize him the instant that he got into his presence.  No doubt they want his professional services, but, having used him, they may be inclined to punish him for what they will regard as his treachery."
 Our hope was that, by taking train, we might get to Beckenham as soon or sooner than the carriage.  On reaching Scotland Yard, however, it was more than an hour before we could get Inspector Gregson and comply with the legal formalities which would enable us to enter the house.  It was a quarter to ten before we reached London Bridge, and half past before the four of us alighted on the Beckenham platform.
 A drive of half a mile brought us to The Myrtles--a large, dark house standing back from the road in its own grounds.  Here we dismissed our cab, and made our way up the drive together.
 "The windows are all dark," remarked the inspector.  "The house seems deserted."
 "Our birds are flown and the nest empty," said Holmes.
 "Why do you say so?"
 "A carriage heavily loaded with luggage has passed out during the last hour."
 The inspector laughed.  "I saw the wheel-tracks in the light of the gate-lamp, but where does the luggage come in?"
 "You may have observed the same wheel-tracks going the other way.
 But the outward-bound ones were very much deeper--so much so that we can say for a certainty that there was a very considerable weight on the carriage."
 "You get a trifle beyond me there," said the inspector, shrugging his shoulder.  "It will not be an easy door to force, but we will try if we cannot make some one hear us."
 He hammered loudly at the knocker and pulled at the bell, but without any success.  Holmes had slipped away, but he came back in a few minutes.
 "I have a window open," said he.
 "It is a mercy that you are on the side of the force, and not against it, Mr. Holmes," remarked the inspector, as he noted the clever way in which my friend had forced back the catch.  "Well, I think that under the circumstances we may enter without an invitation."
 One after the other we made our way into a large apartment, which was evidently that in which Mr. Melas had found himself.  The inspector had lit his lantern, and by its light we could see the two doors, the curtain, the lamp, and the suit of Japanese mail as he had described them.  On the table lay two glasses, and empty brandy-bottle, and the remains of a meal.
 "What is that?" asked Holmes, suddenly.
 We all stood still and listened.  A low moaning sound was coming from somewhere over our heads.  Holmes rushed to the door and out into the hall.  The dismal noise came from upstairs.  He dashed up, the inspector and I at his heels, while his brother Mycroft followed as quickly as his great bulk would permit.
 Three doors faced up upon the second floor, and it was from the central of these that the sinister sounds were issuing, sinking sometimes into a dull mumble and rising again into a shrill whine.
 It was locked, but the key had been left on the outside.  Holmes flung open the door and rushed in, but he was out again in an instant, with his hand to his throat.
 "It's charcoal," he cried.  "Give it time.  It will clear."
 Peering in, we could see that the only light in the room came from a dull blue flame which flickered from a small brass tripod in the centre.  It threw a livid, unnatural circle upon the floor, while in the shadows beyond we saw the vague loom of two figures which crouched against the wall.  From the open door there reeked a horrible poisonous exhalation which set us gasping and coughing.
 Holmes rushed to the top of the stairs to draw in the fresh air, and then, dashing into the room, he threw up the window and hurled the brazen tripod out into the garden.
 "We can enter in a minute," he gasped, darting out again.  "Where is a candle?  I doubt if we could strike a match in that atmosphere.
 Hold the light at the door and we shall get them out, Mycroft. Now!"
 With a rush we got to the poisoned men and dragged them out into the well-lit hall.  Both of them were blue-lipped and insensible, with swollen, congested faces and protruding eyes.  Indeed, so distorted were their features that, save for his black beard and stout figure, we might have failed to recognize in one of them the Greek interpreter who had parted from us only a few hours before at the Diogenes Club.  His hands and feet were securely strapped together, and he bore over one eye the marks of a violent blow.  The other, who was secured in a similar fashion, was a tall man in the last stage of emaciation, with several strips of sticking-plaster arranged in a grotesque pattern over his face.  He had ceased to moan as we laid him down, and a glance showed me that for him at least our aid had come too late.  Mr. Melas, however, still lived, and in less than an hour, with the aid of ammonia and brandy I had the satisfaction of seeing him open his eyes, and of knowing that my hand had drawn him back from that dark valley in which all paths meet.
 It was a simple story which he had to tell, and one which did but confirm our own deductions.  His visitor, on entering his rooms, had drawn a life-preserver from his sleeve, and had so impressed him with the fear of instant and inevitable death that he had kidnapped him for the second time.  Indeed, it was almost mesmeric, the effect which this giggling ruffian had produced upon the unfortunate linguist, for he could not speak of him save with trembling hands and a blanched cheek.  He had been taken swiftly to Beckenham, and had acted as interpreter in a second interview, even more dramatic than the first, in which the two Englishmen had menaced their prisoner with instant death if he did not comply with their demands.  Finally, finding him proof against every threat, they had hurled him back into his prison, and after reproaching Melas with his treachery, which appeared from the newspaper advertisement, they had stunned him with a blow from a stick, and he remembered nothing more until he found us bending over him.
 And this was the singular case of the Grecian Interpreter, the explanation of which is still involved in some mystery.  We were able to find out, by communicating with the gentleman who had answered the advertisement, that the unfortunate young lady came of a wealthy Grecian family, and that she had been on a visit to some friends in England.  While there she had met a young man named Harold Latimer, who had acquired an ascendancy over her and had eventually persuaded her to fly with him.  Her friends, shocked at the event, had contented themselves with informing her brother at Athens, and had then washed their hands of the matter.  The brother, on his arrival in England, had imprudently placed himself in the power of Latimer and of his associate, whose name was Wilson Kemp--a man of the foulest antecedents. These two, finding that  through his ignorance of the language he was helpless in their hands, had kept him a prisoner, and had endeavored by cruelty and starvation to make him sign away his own and his sister's property.  They had kept him in the house without the girl's knowledge, and the plaster over the face had been for the purpose of making recognition difficult in case she should ever catch a glimpse of him.  Her feminine perception, however, had instantly seen through the disguise when, on the occasion of the interpreter's visit, she had seen him for the first time.  The poor girl, however, was herself a prisoner, for there was no one about the house except the man who acted as coachman, and his wife, both of whom were tools of the conspirators.  Finding that their secret was out, and that their prisoner was not to be coerced, the two villains with the girl had fled away at a few hours' notice from the furnished house which they had hired, having first, as they thought, taken vengeance both upon the man who had defied and the one who had betrayed them.
 Months afterwards a curious newspaper cutting reached us from Buda-Pesth.  It told how two Englishmen who had been traveling with a woman had met with a tragic end.  They had each been stabbed, it seems, and the Hungarian police were of opinion that they had quarreled and had inflicted mortal injuries upon each other.  Holmes, however, is, I fancy, of a different way of thinking, and holds to this day that, if one could find the Grecian girl, one might learn how the wrongs of herself and her brother came to be avenged.
 THE NAVAL TREATY
 The July which immediately succeeded my marriage was made memorable by three cases of interest, in which I had the privilege of being associated with Sherlock Holmes and of studying his methods. I find them recorded in my notes under the headings of "The Adventure of the Second Stain," "The Adventure of the Naval Treaty," and "The Adventure of the Tired Captain." The first of these, however, deals with interest of such importance and implicates so many of the first families in the kingdom that for many years it will be impossible to make it public. No case, however, in which Holmes was engaged has ever illustrated the value of his analytical methods so clearly or has impressed those who were associated with him so deeply. I still retain an almost verbatim report of the interview in which he demonstrated the true facts of the case to Monsieur Dubugue of the Paris police, and Fritz von Waldbaum, the well-known specialist of Dantzig, both of whom had wasted their energies upon what proved to be side-issues. The new century will have come, however, before the story can be safely told. Meanwhile I pass on to the second on my list, which promised also at one time to be of national importance, and was marked by several incidents which give it a quite unique character.
 During my school-days I had been intimately associated with a lad named Percy Phelps, who was of much the same age as myself, though he was two classes ahead of me. He was a very brilliant boy, and carried away every prize which the school had to offer, finishing his exploits by winning a scholarship which sent him on to continue his triumphant career at Cambridge. He was, I remember, extremely well connected, and even when we were all little boys together we knew that his mother's brother was Lord Holdhurst, the great conservative politician. This gaudy relationship did him little good at school. On the contrary, it seemed rather a piquant thing to us to chevy him about the playground and hit him over the shins with a wicket. But it was another thing when he came out into the world. I heard vaguely that his abilities and the influences which he commanded had won him a good position at the Foreign Office, and then he passed completely out of my mind until the following letter recalled his existence: Briarbrae, Woking.
 My dear Watson:
 I have no doubt that you can remember "Tadpole" Phelps, who was in the fifth form when you were in the third. It is possible even that you may have heard that through my uncle's influence I obtained a good appointment at the Foreign Office, and that I was in a situation of trust and honor until a horrible misfortune came suddenly to blast my career.
 There is no use writing of the details of that dreadful event. In the event of your acceding to my request it is probable that I shall have to narrate them to you. I have only just recovered from nine weeks of brain-fever, and am still exceedingly weak. Do you think that you could bring your friend Mr. Holmes down to see me? I should like to have his opinion of the case, though the authorities assure me that nothing more can be done. Do try to bring him down, and as soon as possible. Every minute seems an hour while I live in this state of horrible suspense. Assure him that if I have not asked his advice sooner it was not because I did not appreciate his talents, but because I have been off my head ever since the blow fell. Now I am clear again, though I dare not think of it too much for fear of a relapse. I am still so weak that I have to write, as you see, by dictating. Do try to bring him.
 Your old school-fellow,
 Percy Phelps.
 There was something that touched me as I read this letter, something pitiable in the reiterated appeals to bring Holmes. So moved was I that even had it been a difficult matter I should have tried it, but of course I knew well that Holmes loved his art, so that he was ever as ready to bring his aid as his client could be to receive it. My wife agreed with me that not a moment should be lost in laying the matter before him, and so within an hour of breakfast-time I found myself back once more in the old rooms in Baker Street.
 Holmes was seated at his side-table clad in his dressing-gown, and working hard over a chemical investigation. A large curved retort was boiling furiously in the bluish flame of a Bunsen burner, and the distilled drops were condensing into a two-litre measure. My friend hardly glanced up as I entered, and I, seeing that his investigation must be of importance, seated myself in an arm-chair and waited. He dipped into this bottle or that, drawing out a few drops of each with his glass pipette, and finally brought a test-tube containing a solution over to the table. In his right hand he held a slip of litmus-paper.
 "You come at a crisis, Watson," said he. "If this paper remains blue, all is well. If it turns red, it means a man's life." He dipped it into the test-tube and it flushed at once into a dull, dirty crimson.
 "Hum! I thought as much!" he cried. "I will be at your service in an instant, Watson. You will find tobacco in the Persian slipper." He turned to his desk and scribbled off several telegrams, which were handed over to the page-boy. Then he threw himself down into the chair opposite, and drew up his knees until his fingers clasped round his long, thin shins.
 "A very commonplace little murder," said he. "You've got something better, I fancy. You are the stormy petrel of crime, Watson. What is it?"
 I handed him the letter, which he read with the most concentrated attention.
 "It does not tell us very much, does it?" he remarked, as he handed it back to me.
 "Hardly anything."
 "And yet the writing is of interest."
 "But the writing is not his own."
 "Precisely. It is a woman's."
 "A man's surely," I cried."When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you. Now," he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided, "I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not much time. It is nearly five now. In two hours we must be on the scene of action. Miss Irene, or Madame, rather, returns from her drive at seven. We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her."
 "And what then?"
 "You must leave that to me. I have already arranged what is to occur. There is only one point on which I must insist. You must not interfere, come what may. You understand?"
 "I am to be neutral?"
 "To do nothing whatever. There will probably be some small unpleasantness. Do not join in it. It will end in my being conveyed into the house. Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open. You are to station yourself close to that open window."
 "Yes."
 "You are to watch me, for I will be visible to you."
 "Yes."
 "And when I raise my hand -- so -- you will throw into the room what I give you to throw, and will, at the same time, raise the cry of fire. You quite follow me?"
 <  17  >
 "Entirely."
 "It is nothing very formidable," he said, taking a long cigarshaped roll from his pocket. "It is an ordinary plumber's smokerocket, fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting. Your task is confined to that. When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up by quite a number of people. You may then walk to the end of the street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have made myself clear?"
 "I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street."
 "Precisely."
 "Then you may entirely rely on me."
 "That is excellent. I think, perhaps, it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play."
 He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. His broad black hat, his baggy trousers. his white tie, his sympathetic smile, and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr. John Hare alone could have equalled. It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume. His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed. The stage lost a fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.
 It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue. It was already dusk, and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for the coming of its occupant. The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes's succinct description, but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected. On the contrary, for a small street in a quiet neighborhood, it was remarkably animated. There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.
 <  18  >
 "You see," remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of the house, "this marriage rather simplifies matters. The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now. The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr. Godfrey Norton, as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess. Now the question is, Where are we to find the photograph?"
 "Where, indeed?"
 "It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her. It is cabinet size. Too large for easy concealment about a woman's dress. She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched. Two attempts of the sort have already been made. We may take it, then, that she does not carry it about with her."
 "Where, then?"
 "Her banker or her lawyer. There is that double possibility. But I am inclined to think neither. Women are naturally secretive, and they like to do their own secreting. Why should she hand it over to anyone else? She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man. Besides, remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days. It must be where she can lay her hands upon it. It must be in her own house."
 "But it has twice been burgled."
 "Pshaw! They did not know how to look."
 "But how will you look?"
 "I will not look."
 "What then?"
 "I will get her to show me."
 "But she will refuse."
 "She will not be able to. But I hear the rumble of wheels. It is hcr carriage. Now carry out my orders to the letter."
 <  19  >
 As he spoke the gleam of the side-lights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up, one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper, but was elbowed away by another loafer, who had rushed up with the same intention. A fierce quarrel broke out, which was increased by the two guardsmen, who took sides with one of the loungers, and by the scissorsgrinder, who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was struck, and in an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage, was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other, while a number of better-dressed people, who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man. Irene Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, looking back into the street.
 "Is the poor gentleman much hurt?" she asked.
 "He is dead," cried several voices.
 "No, no, there's life in him!" shouted another. "But he'll be gone before you can get him to hospital."
 "He's a brave fellow," said a woman. "They would have had the lady's purse and watch if it hadn't been for him. They were a gang, and a rough one, too. Ah, he's breathing now."
 "He can't lie in the street. May we bring him in, marm?"
 <  20  >
 "Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There is a comfortable sofa. This way, please!"
 Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room, while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window. The lamps had been lit, but the blinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch. I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing, but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me. I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster. After all, I thought, we are not injuring her. We are but preventing her from injuring another.
 Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open the window. At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of "Fire!" The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed and ill -- gentlemen, ostlers, and servant-maids -- joined in a general shriek of "Fire!" Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window. I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm. Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend's arm in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar. He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.
 <  21  >
 "You did it very nicely, Doctor," he remarked. "Nothing could have been better. It is all right."
 "You have the photograph?"
 "I know where it is."
 "And how did you find out?"
 "She showed me, as I told you she would."
 "I am still in the dark."
 "I do not wish to make a mystery," said he, laughing. "The matter was perfectly simple. You, of course, saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice. They were all engaged for the evening."
 "I guessed as much."
 "Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand. I rushed forward, fell down. clapped my hand to my face, and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick."
 "That also I could fathom."
 "Then they carried me in. She was bound to have me in. What else could she do? And into her sitting-room. which was the very room which I suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to see which. They laid me on a couch, I motioned for air, they were compelled to open the window. and you had your chance."
 "How did that help you?"
 "It was all-important. When a woman thinks that her house is on fire, her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most. It is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken advantage of it. In the case of the Darlington substitution scandal it was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business. A married woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box. Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of. She would rush to secure it. The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel. She responded beautifully. The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull. She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as she half-drew it out. When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have not seen her since. I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the house. I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once; but the coachman had come in, and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait. A little over-precipitance may ruin all."
 <  22  >
 "And now?" I asked.
 "Our quest is practically finished. I shall call with the King to-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us. We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady; but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph. It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands."
 "And when will you call?"
 "At eight in the morning. She will not be up, so that we shall have a clear field. Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits. I must wire to the King without delay."
 We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:
 "Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes."
 There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.
 "I've heard that voice before," said Holmes, staring down the dimly lit street. "Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have been."
 III
 I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.
 "You have really got it!" he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.
 "Not yet."
 "But you have hopes?"
 "I have hopes."
 "Then, come. I am all impatience to be gone."
 "We must have a cab."
 "No, my brougham is waiting."
 <  23  >
 "Then that will simplify matters." We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.
 "Irene Adler is married," remarked Holmes.
 "Married! When?"
 "Yesterday."
 "But to whom?"
 "To an English lawyer named Norton."
 "But she could not love him."
 "I am in hopes that she does."
 "And why in hopes?"
 "Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance. If the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty. If she does not love your Majesty, there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majesty's plan."
 "It is true. And yet -- Well! I wish she had been of my own station! What a queen she would have made!" He relapsed into a moody silence, which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.
 The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the steps. She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.
 "Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?" said she.
 "I am Mr. Holmes," answered my companion, looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.
 "Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likely to call. She left this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent."
 "What!" Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and surprise. "Do you mean that she has left England?"
 
 "No, a woman's, and a woman of rare character. You see, at the commencement of an investigation it is something to know that your client is in close contact with some one who, for good or evil, has an exceptional nature. My interest is already awakened in the case.